---
layout: exam
num: e01
ready: true
desc: "Midterm Exam"
exam_date: 2017-10-26 09:30:00.00-7
qtr: F17
---

<ol>


<li class="page-break-before" markdown="1">

(10 pts) For each of the following indicate if the line of code
involves auto-boxing, and/or auto-unboxing.  If a line of code
involves both, check both boxes.  If it involves neither, check
neither box.  ASSUME THAT ALL THE LINES OF CODE ARE IN THE SAME `main`
METHOD, CONSECUTIVELY.

<p class="finePrint">(Grading: -2 for each incorrect answer, but no more than -10 total.)
</p>

<table class="boxingTable">

<tr>
 <th width="60%">Code</th>
 <th width="10%">auto-boxing</th>
 <th width="10%">auto-unboxing</th>
</tr>

<tr>
<td markdown="1">
`ArrayList<Integer> mylist = new ArrayList<Integer>();`
</td>
<td class="checkbox">&square;</td><td class="checkbox">&square;
</td>
</tr>

<tr>
<td markdown="1">
`mylist.add(new Integer(9));`
</td>
<td class="checkbox">&square;</td><td class="checkbox">&square;
</td>
</tr>


<tr>
<td markdown="1">
`mylist.add(4);`
</td>
<td class="checkbox">&square;</td><td class="checkbox">&square;
</td>
</tr>

<tr>
<td markdown="1">
`int x = mylist.get(0) + myList.get(1);`
</td>
<td class="checkbox">&square;</td><td class="checkbox">&square;
</td>
</tr>

<tr>
<td markdown="1">
`Integer y = mylist.get(0);`
</td>
<td class="checkbox">&square;</td><td class="checkbox">&square;
</td>
</tr>

<tr>
<td markdown="1">
`Integer y = mylist.get(0) + mylist.get(1);`
</td>
<td class="checkbox">&square;</td><td class="checkbox">&square;
</td>
</tr>

</table>

</li>


<li class="page-break-before" markdown="1" style="margin-bottom:1em;" >

(12 pts) On the [handout](handout) there is some code.    Your job: figure out after which line of main() each of the following objects is eligible for garbage collection. 

If an object is still not eligible for garbage collection when the last line of main is reached, write "never".   Each answer should be a line number, or the word never.

<style>
 .fill-in-blanks-smaller table {
   width: 60%;
 }
 .fill-in-blanks-smaller table * td {
    margin: 0.5em 0.5em 0.5em 0.5em;
    padding: 0.5em 0.5em 0.5em 0.5em;
 }
</style>

<div class="fill-in-blanks-smaller" markdown="1">

| Object         | Fill in line  here |
|----------------|--------------------|
| (a) `Alf`      |                    |
| (b) `Bella`  |                    |
| (c) `Charlie`    |                    |
| (d) `Davy`     |                    |

</div>

</li>

<li markdown="1" style="margin-bottom:0em;" markdown="1"> 
Suppose the code for the `Dog` class on the [handout](handout){:data-ajax="false}  were in the file `Dog.java` and we
put the following code in a file called `UseDog.java`:

{% highlight java linenos %}
public class UseDog {

    public static void main(String [] args) {
    Dog d1 = new Dog("Alf");
    System.out.println("d1=" + d1);
    }                              

}

{% endhighlight  %}

<ol>
<li  markdown="1" style="margin-bottom:10em;" markdown="1"> (5 pts) Assuming that currently only `Dog.java` and `UseDog.java` are in your current directory,  give the entire sequence of commands you would need to type at a terminal prompt (such as at a terminal shell on CSIL),  in order to run the main program from the `UseDog` class.
</li>

<li  markdown="1" style="margin-bottom:0em;" markdown="1"> (10 pts) When you run the program, the output is this:
```
d1=Dog@7852e922
```

Suppose you want this code to produce the following instead.  (`Alf` should be,
in any case, the Dog's name, not a hard coded value `Alf`.)
```
d1=Dog[Alf]
```

How do you accomplish this by modifying ONLY the source code for `Dog.java`?  Describe briefly what you would have to do, and give the specific source code (i.e. if it's an additional data member, say what that is&mdash;if it's an additional method or method(s), write those methods.
 
</li>

</ol>
</li>


<li class="page-break-before"  style="margin-bottom:25em;" markdown="1"> (10 pts) 
Assume that we have a class `Kennel` defined as follows:

```
public class Kennel extends ArrayList<Dog> {
...
```

Suppose `dogs` is of type `Kennel`, and contains an unknown number of dogs.  For example, it might contain dogs named `Fido`, `Ralph`, and `Snoopy`.

Write an instance method called `getNames` that we could add to the `Kennel` class that when invoked on an object of type `Kennel` (e.g. as `dogs.getNames()` returns an `ArrayList<String>` value containing precisely the names of each of the `Dog` objects in the list (e.g. an ArrayList<String> containing `Fido`, `Ralph` and `Snoopy`).

Hint: Be very careful about the difference between how `add` and `set` operate on  `ArrayList` objects.  See "Handout 2" with information on `java.util.ArrayList` for more details.

</li> 

<li class="page-break-before" markdown="1"> (10 pts) Write the code for the following static method.

The method takes an plain old java array of int (i.e. an `int []` value) and returns
an `ArrayList<Integer>` value.





```
public static ArrayList<Integer> arrayToArrayList(int [] array) {


















}
```
</li>



<li class="page-break-before"  markdown="1" style="margin-bottom:8em;"> (10 pts) In Java, we can `extend` a class, or we can `implement` an interface.

Explain the difference (as if you were at a job interview).  

"As if you were at a job interview" means: 

* Your answer should be precise enough that it is clear you know what you are talking about (so you get the job)
* Your answer should not be so long, tedious or detailed that the interviewer gets bored, annoyed, and decides you'd be a "bad fit" for the company.

</li>

<li markdown="1" style="margin-bottom:20em;">
(10 pts) In the same "job interview" style, explain the difference between
tasks and targets in an Ant `build.xml` file.

</li>

<li  class="page-break-before" markdown="1" style="margin-bottom:20em;"> When working with git repositories, we sometimes work with a `.git` directory, a `.gitignore` file and a `README.md` file.

In the same "job interview" style described earlier, answer these questions:

<ol>

<li markdown="1" style="margin-bottom:8em;"> (3 pts) "We had an intern here once that couldn't find the `.git` directory or the `.gitignore` files in a repo&mdash;they kept complaining that they weren't there when they did a directory listing.  Of course *you* know what they were doing wrong.  Why couldn't they see the files, and what did they need to do in order to see them?
</li>

<li markdown="1" style="margin-bottom:8em;">(4 pts) "Of course you know all about git: so tell me what the `.git` directory in a repo is for."
</li>

<li markdown="1" style="margin-bottom:8em;">(4 pts) "And what about the `.gitignore` file?
</li>

<li markdown="1" style="margin-bottom:8em;">(4 pts) "And the `README.md`? What does `.md` even mean, and what is this file for?"
</li>


<li markdown="1" style="margin-bottom:8em;">(8 pts) Finally: what's the difference between doing a `git commit` and doing a `git push`?
</li>

</ol>
</li>




</ol>